- hot loading 
- dev tools (in lieu of getting stdout from somewhere)
- headless mode


sample project 

- shell command 
- that outputs to dom 
- with a button to restart 


- starts server 
- hot load middleware 
- link right inside it that outputs responses 
- log events 

- start dev server 
- with browserify bundles as children?
- does a bundle 
- add transforms one by one 
- with server staying up
- button to trigger builds 

- enables hmr with hot=true prop

- routing 
- back/forward buttons 
- good for dashboards etc 

- npm scripts autogenerated panel 

- embed hyperterm?


- play music without interrupting through the demo 



- what no nodemon
- show website preview *inside* electron
- 



So, does anyone here develop user interfaces?

[laugh laugh]



Does it look like this?

[myntra]

[hasgeek]

etc etc 



and you guys use some framework or the other to build it yeah? 

and when I say framework, I mean some in memory representation of all the ‘actors’ in the system 



angular / react / homegrown / whatever 



and I guess they end up looking something like this, yeah?



[show whiteboard diagrams]



and they end up looking somewhat similar in your code too, yes? 



[react component tree]



Now, what does your workflow looks like? 

many terminal tabs?

where you run a database in one, etc?

nodemon to restart your app?

you have some config files too maybe?

webpack.config etc?

where you join together a bunch of transforms to output bundles etc?



you have a bunch of tests too I guess?

that you run in the background etc?



do you work on parts in isolation, or all in one app?





does docker even come close to being able to do these things for your dev environment?



docker is great for other machines, 

but beyond installing and starting it up, what else does it do for *you* as a developer?



how many npm scripts / gulp tasks will you make? 



will anything break if you change these scripts?  





what if you could represent your workflow with components?



like what if we could mount a server 

and log it to a dom element 



and use a button to toggle it on / off 



what if we could hot load middleware into the server?



build forms and dashboards to start your server etc 



use routers to have different ‘tasks'



servers 



<Browser/>

<Hyperterm/>



node app.js —url=/perf?production



/perf 

/components/header





build your own workbench like any respectable mad scientist 



you don’t have to make separate pages on your app server to test individual components 

host a chat with other developers? in your lan whatever 






this is not a react talk 

this isn’t about ‘reinventing coding’ either, like light table etc [divshot, livetable? swift playgrounds ]

which is more heavy on the visual / waaaay out there stuff 

it’s about rethinking how we, as developers interact with our own code AND software



we spend hours and months building pixel perfect user interfaces for other people, yet limit ourselves to json files and command line flags 



we can do better 



we can compose all these little bits into a proper structure with the same tools we use to build other software


[electron name drop]


software libraries and tools aren’t just about how one api talks to another, it’s also how humans talk to the computer







but we have the tools already to interact better with our own systems and toys 



this isn’t to say the command line is dead, or we should port all our binaries to react components 

but we should recognise the that software is living, eventful, and we can treat ourselves better when we interact with them 



the route to minority report is incremental







Some people will look at this and complain that this isn’t what it was ‘meant’ for. 



I ignore them. I have things to make (tm) 







Indeed, a lot of people will tell you to not make stuff because it isn’t correct. 



Ignore them. 



If you’re smart, and iterate, you’ll fix those problems along the way 



But when you’re creating stuff out of thin air, things that didn’t exist even as an idea need looser rules. 



Go on and discover. 